>> I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard, and
this is "Mystery Teachings".
How do we create a life filled
with greater joy, meaning,
and purpose?
Well, these are
the final lessons
we must learn before
reuniting with our true self.
And these are the lessons of
the next two archetypes, The Sun
and Judgment, have to teach us.
As we continue our ascent
on the hero's journey,
we're finally emerging
into the full light of day,
followed by a spiritual light.
These two archetypes are the
principles of regeneration
and realization.
The sun is the
regeneration of our spirit,
and it makes us feel
young and strong
and joyful again, like we've
been given a new lease on life.
Judgment is a symbol of rebirth.
It brings deeper
spiritual realization,
and it leads to a
revolution in our lives.
Now these are some of the
most exciting final steps
on our journey to
self-actualization and mastery.
After our journey
through the night, which
was ruled by the moon, we come
to a new day as the sun rises.
And this new day
dawns as we emerge
into this light with increased
strength and self-awareness,
knowing ourselves more clear
about what we believe in
and what's real.
The sun reminds us that we
are in a joyful process,
a flowering of our
true self, and this key
brings us to the
point where we can
enjoy the simple and beautiful
things in life right now.
The sun gives us constant
support in our lives.
Even our thoughts are
powered by solar energy.
And the sun's message to
us is shine your light
without attachments
or expectations.
Unconditional love is
not looking for anything.
It just is.
Now as we experience more
and more inner development,
we'll eventually come to
the great solar initiation.
This happens when
we come to a point
where we consciously see
the intelligence that
lives within everything,
and even energy itself.
Now the sun isn't
the ultimate source,
but it's the direct
and immediate source
of enlightenment
in our lives here.
Key 19, the sun, sheds
light into the dark corners
of our consciousness,
bringing what
was subconscious to
conscious, and helps
us to become more aware
of our greater self.
Now alchemy is often called the
work of the sun and the moon,
which are our self-conscious
and our subconscious aspects.
We finally reached a happy
balance between these,
and they're now enjoying each
other and working in harmony.
It's a collaboration
between our intuition
and the illumination
that's our birthright.
The moon, sun, and
judgment keys also
bring us into the
distillation stage of alchemy.
So what does distillation mean?
In alchemy, when we emerge
from the fermentation stage,
it means that everything that
remains within this composite
itself is of its pure essence.
Anything that was
corruptible has
died by the end of the
fermentation stage.
So in distillation, what we
do is we take what remains,
and we're now going
to mix it into water.
And then in that
water, we're going
to put it into a glass vessel
called the distillation
apparatus, and we heat it.
As the water evaporates, it
goes into a more subtle gaseous
state.
And in that state, it is more
receptive to subtle influences,
to energy, to
spiritual intention
being infused into it.
So in the Emerald
Tablet, it says
it ascends from Earth
to heaven, and then
it again descends to Earth.
So as the water evaporates and
it comes into this gas state,
it ultimately cools.
And when it cools, it
also recondenses back
into the water.
And so we go through many
cycles of this evaporation
and recondensing, going above
and receiving the powers
from the above, from
the spiritual realms,
and then embodying that,
bringing that back down
into the physical so that it
can be embodied within us here
in this life.
So distillation is
a process within us
where we are raising
our consciousness up
to these higher
states, receiving
spiritual illumination and
awakening, and then bringing
that back down into
our lives so that it
can be embodied, manifested,
and applied in this world.
So here, between the moon, the
sun, and the judgment keys,
the moon represents
taking what came out
of the ferment from
the previous stages,
especially out of the star.
And we mix it into the water.
So the moon is the water here.
Then the sun is the fire
that heats the water
and causes it to evaporate.
And then the judgment key
represents that ascension
from Earth to heaven.
And then the world
key will represent
it being brought
into Earth again,
where it all solidifies and
takes on a perfected form.
The sun is ruled by number 19,
and 19 is a number of goodness.
It represents victory
over any disappointments,
as well as general
success in life.
The one and the nine
form this number,
and thus it has a lot to do
with self-consciousness again,
which is represented by
number one, or the magician,
as well as our inner
guidance that's represented
by number nine, or the hermit.
Now in addition, when we
add the one plus the nine,
we get 10, which relates
to the Wheel of Fortune.
Now the sun is the final
result or the outer expression
of that twist of fate
that began at the wheel.
And the wheel even
looks like a sun,
in a way, as it radiates
out its own cosmic energy.
The wheel is the inner
essence of the sun.
But we can take it
even deeper than this
because the one plus the
zero also adds up again
to one, bringing us
back to the magician.
So the true core
essence of the sun
is the directed will and
concentration of energy
that is performed by the
self-conscious magician.
Now let's explore the imagery
and symbolism of the sun card.
The sun shines
prominently on this card,
and we also see a
child on a white horse
below holding a large red flag.
Behind the child is a brick wall
with sunflowers standing tall.
The straight rays that
extend from the sun
represent cosmic radiant
light, while the wavy rays
represent vibration.
The face of the sun
indicates that this
is a living, conscious
intelligence, very
similar to what we
saw in the moon.
It's a reminder that the
material forces of nature
are actually modes
of conscious energy.
There's also four
sunflowers, and these
represent the natural kingdoms
of mineral, vegetable, animal,
and human, as well
as the four elements.
Now normally sunflowers
turn towards the sun,
and they follow the sun
wherever it is in the sky.
But these sunflowers are
turned towards the child.
And this hints that
all of creation
turns towards humans for
its final development
as we apply our creative
abilities and our art to that.
Now the stone wall
behind the child
represents truth as
being partially revealed
and partially obscured because
of the five physical senses.
It shows us that
comprehension of truth
is limited when we rely
only on sensory input
or physical proof, like what we
see happens today with science.
The child represents
our renewed self that
has returned to a state of joy.
And the feather in the
child's crown of flowers
connects back to
that feather of Maat
from the Justice key, which
represents purity and truth.
This child is also
androgynous looking.
It's hard to tell whether
it's a boy or a girl,
and that's because the two
have been brought together
into union.
The red flag that the child
holds is a victory banner,
and the color red shows the
active masculine element
associated with the sun.
The white horse that
the child rides on
relates back to the
white horse that we
saw in the Death key,
who, if you'll recall,
was actually our true self.
White is always a reference to
the divine self of pure light.
What's the main message that the
sun is trying to teach us here?
This key depicts the teaching
that only as a child shall
you enter the kingdom of heaven.
Here we've returned to
that childlike state of joy
and wonder and purity
within our own soul,
and we experience life
as a heaven on Earth.
Now the archetypal
role that is played
by this key on our
journey is what
we call the return to light
and the reconciliation.
The key lesson or concept here
is regeneration and renewal.
This path literally stimulates
new sunshine or light
to shine in our lives, and
it manifests conditions
in our life that might
help us to realize
that we have a role to play
in the greater universe.
What are some other important
correspondences of the sun?
Well, its esoteric
title or secret name
is the Lord of the
Fire of the Worlds.
And the element here associated
with the sun is obviously fire.
The sun is what rules the
sign of Leo, which was
related to the strength card.
The sun is also exalted in
Aries, which is the emperor.
It also rules the
fifth house, which
relates to creativity
and enjoyment of life.
And our sun sign in
astrology, or where
we find the sun in
our natal chart,
tends to influence our dominant
personality characteristics
or what drives us
as an individual.
It represents the basic
nature of a person.
The key attribute of the sun
is that it assists the ego
to transform into a powerful
and positive self-image.
And just like the sun is the
heart of our solar system,
within humans, the
sun is also associated
with our heart, which is
constantly pumping life
into us all the time.
Now some other qualities
associated with the sun
are that it supports
the ability to generate,
to motivate, and
to inspire others
through things like teamwork
and collaborative efforts.
Its challenge, though,
is to place ourselves
in partnerships that are
really energizing rather
than draining.
The sun magnetizes to us
people, opportunities,
and situations that
can enhance and support
our basic vital nature.
The sun generally is
happy, vibrant, romantic,
and has a childlike enthusiasm.
In the ancient
Egyptian tradition,
the God Ra was
associated with the sun,
and in the ancient Greek, this
became Apollo, who we also
encountered in the Chariot key.
Ra was considered to
be the major deity
and creator of the
ancient Egyptian pantheon.
The entire pantheon
were actually
called the family of Ra.
And it's quite likely that
these beings were actually
intergalactic travelers
who came to Earth
to share knowledge and
illuminate our consciousness.
Some of the strengths and the
virtues that the sun helps
us to achieve and
awaken in our life
are a greater level of
joy in life, cheerfulness,
illumination and inspiration,
power in healing,
and the balance of
reason with intuition.
These are the pure and the
positive balanced expressions
of the sun.
But there can also
be distortions
of either too much of
this or too little,
which then leads to weaknesses
and the shadow aspects
or vices of the sun.
So some of those things
to watch out for here
would include being
egocentric, having
a lack of self-confidence,
being idle, or being dishonest.
How does the sun
show up in your life?
Now as children, we all had an
innate innocence and curiosity,
and we wanted to express
our creative nature
in all aspects of life.
But even as adults,
recall any time
when you felt regenerative by
a day of being out in the sun,
for example, and how it
renewed your life force.
The sun is also about our
ability to express our will
and to create, so anytime
you've done anything creative
at any age, this was the sun
shining on you and through you.
But some of its harder
lessons might have also come
during different
periods of your life
when you needed to remove
yourself from partnerships
or teamwork efforts that you
found depleting, draining,
or un-inspirational.
The more you come to
recognize the sun in your life
here and now, the
more it will also
connect you with
becoming conscious of one
of your parallel lives where the
sun is the dominant archetype.
People born under the
archetype of the sun
are highly creative
people, and they
seem to light up a room
whenever they enter.
They're full of life,
vibrancy, and positivity.
They're natural generators,
motivators, and stimulators
of people and situations.
Because of this, they're equally
good at working with people
either one on one or in groups.
They thrive on that
synergy that happens
when two or more
people come together
to create a greater whole.
They make great life coaches,
art teachers, event producers,
motivational speakers,
leaders of innovative teams,
and really anything that
inspires them and offers them
a good creative
outlet, but that also
involves some form
of leadership.
By working with the sun
and invoking its energies
into your life, you can
awaken your creativity and joy
as well.
The next to last step
on our hero's journey
brings us to the Judgment key.
Here the Phoenix rises
again from its own ashes
to be reborn and awaken
to full consciousness.
This represents the
rebirth and awakening
of our new, enlightened self.
This is the child of
the regenerated self.
Now this is a path of
fire and everything
that fire symbolizes and means.
It's activating forces
within our lives,
both physically and
spiritually, here.
Fire can destroy and
create, from its ashes
we can always rise
again like the Phoenix.
Now this path can also
be used to strengthen
our Kundalini, or that
internal spiritual fire,
and to free ourselves
from old ways of being.
This path generates greater
strength and courage
and self-assertiveness
as we face the fire,
and it reminds us to look at
the history that we've shared
and to forgive ourselves
and others for the judgments
that we've made
about what we are
or aren't doing in our lives.
The Judgment key is
also sometimes called
the Last Judgment, which
implies completion, decision,
or termination.
It's the final state of
personal consciousness
because with the next
key of the World,
we're moving into a state
of cosmic consciousness
where our sense of
separation is eliminated.
The neurology that
rules the Judgment key
is number 20, which represents
awakening, resurrection
or rebirth, and it brings
about a new purpose in life.
This number carries with
it a psychic potential
in the form of precognitive
dreams as well.
It's a combination
of two and zero,
and the two represents
subconscious,
whereas the zero is the
super consciousness.
So here the two are
merging together.
So this relates, then, to the
high priestess or subconscious,
and the fool, super conscious.
And when you add these two
numbers up, two plus zero
gives us two again, which
makes the high priestess
the inner essence
of the Judgment key.
Now recall that
the high priestess
is the root or the
mother of matter,
the prima materia from which
all manifestation is birthed.
Now here in Key
20, we're walking
through another gate of the
zero and having a rebirth.
Also, we've gone up an
octave from the numbers
of the teens that were all
dealing with self-consciousness
because they started
with the number one,
and now we're moving
into the 20s, which
is around subconsciousness.
So we've come to this point
where the light shines directly
into subconscious, and
our subconscious becomes
transparent to that light
as it shines through us.
Let's now explore some of
the imagery and symbolism
of the Judgment key.
We see an angel that fills
the sky partially concealed
by clouds, and he
blows through a trumpet
that is embellished by a
flag with an equal arm cross
upon it.
Down below we see floating
coffins upon a sea of water,
and there are men,
women, and children
with their arms extended
out, looking up to the angel.
Now the bodies of these
people are tinted gray,
which indicates that the
pairs of opposites that we've
explored before have now
been blended together
and neutralized.
So this gray also indicates
that the scene that's
being depicted here is
not actually located
in the physical plane,
but it's related more
to a spiritual
plane or to wisdom.
The angel here represents
the divine breath
or the cosmic fire.
And this angel is
also attributed
to Archangel Gabriel.
That's not only
because he carries
the trumpets of annunciation,
but because Gabriel
is the angel associated
with the element of water,
and here we see that the
angel's robe is blue.
Now the action of heat, or
that cosmic fire upon water,
creates air, which is the
substance of the breath.
And the breath is expressed
and focused as we make sounds.
And sound is based on
a seven-fold scale.
These seven basic notes
or tones on the scale
are indicated here
by seven lines that
radiate out from the trumpet.
And this trumpet
is an instrument
utilizing sound and vibration to
send out its light and energy.
The sound is the instrument,
therefore, of final liberation,
and the seven notes
or tones also affect
our seven interior
stars or chakras
through what we call sympathetic
vibration or entrainment.
The banner on the trumpet
has an equal arm cross on it,
and this is the
same cross that we
see on the chest of
the high priestess.
And now it's appearing here
on the banner of salvation.
Now as we look at
the coffins, why
are these people rising
up out of coffins?
So these coffins here,
though, are rectangular,
and that represents our
three-dimensional way
of looking at reality.
It's the physical plane.
It's limited.
We put things in boxes.
And this is an illusion.
And so these
three-dimensional coffins
are representing this limited
experience of 3D reality.
It's also the cube of our
old personality, which
we have now done away with.
And as the humans
are eternal spirit,
their true self is starting
to rise up, showing us
that we are not our body.
We're not even our personality.
We are the spirit, and we are
rising up to a new dimension.
So this is the gorgeous
butterfly, or the new self that
is emerging from the chrysalis.
And these people are ascending
to a higher dimension
of consciousness, moving
out of 3D and into 4D,
or even let's say 5D.
Now as we can see, there are
also many people, not just
the first three in the
front, but there's also
people in the rear or in
the distance of the ocean.
So we can see that
there are many who
are awakening and ascending.
So this key also
relates to a shift
in the collective
consciousness and the ascension
of humanity to a higher realm
that we are destined to make.
But what else is judgment
trying to show us?
Well, the archetypal role that
this key plays in our journey
is one of healing and awakening.
Its key lesson or concept
is spiritual realization,
and it also shows us the power
that the awakened mind has
and its ability to give
birth to new forms.
But let's take a moment here to
take a look at the last seven
keys of the sequence.
They go from total
darkness at the devil
to more and more
light as we progress.
We have the light in the tower
that comes from the lightning
strike, that bolt from the blue,
although the tower is still
pretty dark.
Then we have the light of
the stars in the Star key,
which starts to guide
us and light our way.
Then we have the
light of the full moon
as things start to
become more apparent,
yet we're still in the dark.
And then we finally
come into the sun
as it shines the full
light of day upon us
and our consciousness
is really awakened.
And now with the
Judgment key, we
have a spiritual light coming
from above that's blasted out
by the archangel
and the rays that
are coming out of his trumpet.
And finally, as we
move to the world,
she is dancing in the cosmic
light of the universe.
So these keys are
progressively shining
more and more light
onto our subconscious
and conscious mind.
So this key, then,
involves matters of choice.
It's a later stage of
the spiritual unfoldment
in which our personal
consciousness is
on the verge of blending
with universal consciousness.
Now this is also, then, a path
of karma, of cause and effect.
It releases energy that
stimulates situations
in which we must face
responsibility, and also
actively take on
our divine purpose
rather than just ignoring
or postponing it.
It stimulates energies
that force and activate
greater choice within
our mission in life,
and it reveals what
unwanted ties we need to let
go of in order to really
fulfill our mission.
Now at this point on the path,
we are also no longer bound
by conventional
3D ways of being.
We have awakened and
are rising to a higher
multidimensional consciousness.
Here we live an
experience of life
it is completely different
from the ordinary,
and our consciousness
is expanded
to include inner awareness
of the truth about ourselves.
This realization
of the true self
liberates us from all
sense of restriction.
We find this relationship with
the one life of our true self
to be more real than any
of the passing vibrations
that we once called reality.
Let's go through some other
correspondences for Judgment.
The esoteric title
or the secret name
here is the spirit
of primal fire,
which also indicates its
element, which is primal fire.
Now this fire is the source
of all fire and everything
that fire symbolizes.
It's the activating
force within our lives,
both physically and spiritually.
Primal fire is what drives all
alchemy within the universe.
Now the astrological
correspondence given here
sometimes is the planet Pluto.
Pluto co-rules Scorpio and
the eighth house of sex.
Now regardless of
Pluto's eccentricities,
it's a very powerful planet.
And it has a tendency to destroy
outmoded concepts in order
to build anew.
When Pluto makes an aspect
during any kind of a transit,
no one is left untouched
by its influence.
Pluto is the Lord
of the underworld
and is also the planet
of death and rebirth.
And this is
symbolized by the fact
that half the time, this planet
is frozen and dead when it's
really far away from the sun.
And then the other
half of the time, it's
thawed and alive as
it comes in closer.
Some other key words that
relate to the Judgment key
are realization, universal
consciousness, resurrection
and rebirth, thinking
outside the box,
and having a
spiritual awakening.
Now these are the balanced or
pure expressions of judgment,
but if they go into imbalances
of either being too much or too
little, it falls into
weaknesses and shadow
aspects of the judgment key.
So some of those things we
need to watch out for here
are being overly
critical and judgmental,
obviously, resistance, fear of
consequences, irresponsibility,
and inertia.
How does judgment
show up in our life?
For example, anytime that you've
heard the call to a higher
purpose in life and
actively pursued
your spiritual evolution
so that you could really
be ready to know and
fulfill your mission,
that's judgment coming through.
Also, if you look at your
life from a bird's eye view,
and you review how certain
events in your past
all led you, step by step,
to where you are now today,
that was judgment
helping you to awaken.
The more you recognize judgment
at play in your life now,
the more you will
also connect with one
of your other parallel
lives where judgment
is the dominant archetype.
What might our parallel life
be like under the archetype
of judgment?
These are people who've
heard the call to service
and a higher purpose in
life, and they actively
take on that mission
of not only pursuing
their own transformation,
but also helping
blow the trumpet of
transformation for others
to awaken as well.
They step onto this
path of actively serving
to help humanity succeed at
making a collective shift
in consciousness so that
we can all, together,
create a new and better world.
They're really good
communicators, as well as
public speakers or authors.
They're able to share
their perceptions
in a way that is
well-received, heard,
and understood by other people.
These folks use inspiration
rather than fear
to motivate people
to take action.
They're creative and
dynamic, and others
see them as perceptive and
insightful and intuitive.
And they're strong
leaders for helping
to guide people into a
new paradigm way of life.
By working with judgment
and invoking its energies
into your life,
you, too, can awaken
your sense of life purpose.
Join me again as
we explore further
into the 22 archetypes
of Tarot and how
they can help us make our
big shift in consciousness.
I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard.
Thank you for exploring
the mysteries of Tarot
and our
multidimensionality with me
in this episode of
"Mystery Teachings".